id	content
0#intro	Apache Hadoop is an open-source software framework that supports data-intensive distributed applications, licensed under the Apache v2 license. It supports the running of applications on large clusters of commodity hardware. The Hadoop framework transparently provides both reliability and data motion to applications. Hadoop implements a computational paradigm named map/reduce, where the application is divided into many small fragments of work, each of which may be executed or re-executed on any node in the cluster. In addition, it provides a distributed file system that stores data on the compute nodes, providing very high aggregate bandwidth across the cluster. Both map/reduce and the distributed file system are designed so that node failures are automatically handled by the framework.[1] It enables applications to work with thousands of computation-independent computers and petabytes of data. Hadoop was derived from Google's MapReduce and Google File System (GFS) papers. The entire Apache Hadoop "platform" is now commonly considered to consist of the Hadoop kernel, MapReduce and Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), as well as a number of related projects – including Apache Hive, Apache HBase, and others.[2] Hadoop is written in the Java programming language and is a top-level Apache project being built and used by a global community of contributors.[3] Hadoop and its related projects (Hive, HBase, Zookeeper, and so on) have many contributors from across the ecosystem.[4]
1#history	Hadoop was created by Doug Cutting and Michael J. Cafarella.[5] Doug, who was working at Yahoo at the time,[6] named it after his son's toy elephant.[7] It was originally developed to support distribution for the Nutch search engine project.[8]
2#architecture	Hadoop consists of the Hadoop Common which provides access to the filesystems supported by Hadoop. The Hadoop Common package contains the necessary JAR files and scripts needed to start Hadoop. The package also provides source code, documentation, and a contribution section which includes projects from the Hadoop Community.[citation needed] For effective scheduling of work, every Hadoop-compatible filesystem should provide location awareness: the name of the rack (more precisely, of the network switch) where a worker node is. Hadoop applications can use this information to run work on the node where the data is, and, failing that, on the same rack/switch, reducing backbone traffic. The Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) uses this when replicating data, to try to keep different copies of the data on different racks. The goal is to reduce the impact of a rack power outage or switch failure so that even if these events occur, the data may still be readable.[9] A small Hadoop cluster will include a single master and multiple worker nodes. The master node consists of a JobTracker, TaskTracker, NameNode, and DataNode. A slave or worker node acts as both a DataNode and TaskTracker, though it is possible to have data-only worker nodes, and compute-only worker nodes; these are normally only used in non-standard applications.[citation needed] Hadoop requires JRE 1.6 or higher. The standard startup and shutdown scripts require ssh to be set up between nodes in the cluster.[citation needed] In a larger cluster, the HDFS is managed through a dedicated NameNode server to host the filesystem index, and a secondary NameNode that can generate snapshots of the namenode's memory structures, thus preventing filesystem corruption and reducing loss of data. Similarly, a standalone JobTracker server can manage job scheduling. In clusters where the Hadoop MapReduce engine is deployed against an alternate filesystem, the NameNode, secondary NameNode and DataNode architecture of HDFS is replaced by the filesystem-specific equivalent.[citation needed]
3#filesytem	HDFS is a distributed, scalable, and portable filesystem written in Java for the Hadoop framework. Each node in a Hadoop instance typically has a single namenode; a cluster of datanodes form the HDFS cluster. The situation is typical because each node does not require a datanode to be present. Each datanode serves up blocks of data over the network using a block protocol specific to HDFS. The filesystem uses the TCP/IP layer for communication; clients use RPC to communicate between each other. HDFS stores large files (an ideal file size is a multiple of 64 MB[10]), across multiple machines. It achieves reliability by replicating the data across multiple hosts, and hence does not require RAID storage on hosts. With the default replication value, 3, data is stored on three nodes: two on the same rack, and one on a different rack. Data nodes can talk to each other to rebalance data, to move copies around, and to keep the replication of data high. HDFS is not fully POSIX compliant because the requirements for a POSIX filesystem differ from the target goals for a Hadoop application. The tradeoff of not having a fully POSIX compliant filesystem is increased performance for data throughput. HDFS was designed to handle very large files.[10] HDFS has recently added high-availability capabilities, allowing the main metadata server (the Namenode) to be manually failed over to a backup in the event of failure. Automatic failover is being developed as well. Additionally, the filesystem includes what is called a Secondary Namenode, which misleads some people into thinking that when the Primary Namenode goes offline, the Secondary Namenode takes over. In fact, the Secondary Namenode regularly connects with the Primary Namenode and builds snapshots of the Primary Namenode's directory information, which is then saved to local/remote directories. These checkpointed images can be used to restart a failed Primary Namenode without having to replay the entire journal of filesystem actions, then edit the log to create an up-to-date directory structure. Since Namenode is the single point for storage and management of metadata, this can be a bottleneck for supporting a huge number of files, especially a large number of small files. HDFS Federation is a new addition which aims to tackle this problem to a certain extent by allowing multiple namespaces served by separate Namenodes . An advantage of using HDFS is data awareness between the jobtracker and tasktracker. The jobtracker schedules map/reduce jobs to tasktrackers with an awareness of the data location. An example of this would be if node A contained data (x,y,z) and node B contained data (a,b,c). The jobtracker will schedule node B to perform map/reduce tasks on (a,b,c) and node A would be scheduled to perform map/reduce tasks on (x,y,z). This reduces the amount of traffic that goes over the network and prevents unnecessary data transfer. When Hadoop is used with other filesystems this advantage is not always available. This can have a significant impact on the performance of job completion times, which has been demonstrated when running data intensive jobs.[11] Another limitation of HDFS is that it cannot be directly mounted by an existing operating system. Getting data into and out of the HDFS file system, an action that often needs to be performed before and after executing a job, can be inconvenient. A Filesystem in Userspace (FUSE) virtual file system has been developed to address this problem, at least for Linux and some other Unix systems. File access can be achieved through the native Java API, the Thrift API to generate a client in the language of the users' choosing (C++, Java, Python, PHP, Ruby, Erlang, Perl, Haskell, C#, Cocoa, Smalltalk, and OCaml), the command-line interface, or browsed through the HDFS-UI webapp over HTTP.
4#mapreduce	Above the file systems comes the MapReduce engine, which consists of one JobTracker, to which client applications submit MapReduce jobs. The JobTracker pushes work out to available TaskTracker nodes in the cluster, striving to keep the work as close to the data as possible. With a rack-aware filesystem, the JobTracker knows which node contains the data, and which other machines are nearby. If the work cannot be hosted on the actual node where the data resides, priority is given to nodes in the same rack. This reduces network traffic on the main backbone network. If a TaskTracker fails or times out, that part of the job is rescheduled. The TaskTracker on each node spawns off a separate Java Virtual Machine process to prevent the TaskTracker itself from failing if the running job crashes the JVM. A heartbeat is sent from the TaskTracker to the JobTracker every few minutes to check its status. The Job Tracker and TaskTracker status and information is exposed by Jetty and can be viewed from a web browser. If the JobTracker failed on Hadoop 0.20 or earlier, all ongoing work was lost. Hadoop version 0.21 added some checkpointing to this process; the JobTracker records what it is up to in the filesystem. When a JobTracker starts up, it looks for any such data, so that it can restart work from where it left off. In earlier versions of Hadoop, all active work was lost when a JobTracker restarted. Known limitations of this approach are: The allocation of work to TaskTrackers is very simple. Every TaskTracker has a number of available slots (such as "4 slots"). Every active map or reduce task takes up one slot. The Job Tracker allocates work to the tracker nearest to the data with an available slot. There is no consideration of the current system load of the allocated machine, and hence its actual availability. If one TaskTracker is very slow, it can delay the entire MapReduce job - especially towards the end of a job, where everything can end up waiting for the slowest task. With speculative execution enabled, however, a single task can be executed on multiple slave nodes.
